Port MASTG v1->v2 MASTG-TEST-0002: Testing Local Storage for Input Validation (android) (by @appknox) (#3328)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-CODE/MASTG-TEST-XXXX.md

---
title: Use of Local Storage for Input Validation
platform: android
id: MASTG-TEST-0288
type: [static]
weakness: MASWE-0082
profiles: [L1, L2]
---

## Overview

> Data stored in Android's `SharedPreference`s can be tampered with on a rooted device. If an application reads this data without verifying its integrity (e.g., with an HMAC signature), it can lead to security vulnerabilities. This test checks if the application properly validates data read from local storage.

Author: done

> Data stored in Android's `SharedPreference`s can be tampered with on a rooted device. If an application reads this data without verifying its integrity and authenticity (e.g., with an HMAC signature), it can lead to security vulnerabilities. This test checks if the application properly validates data read from local storage.

Reviewer: I agree, let's generalize it to any storage APIs and use `SharedPreferences` as an example.

## Steps

> 1. Run @MASTG-TECH-0014 on the code and look for patterns where data is read from `SharedPreferences` without a corresponding integrity check.

Reviewer: As said above, let's generalize it to any storage APIs and use `SharedPreferences` as an example.
```suggestion
1. Reverse engineer the app (@MASTG-TECH-0017).
2. Run a static analysis (@MASTG-TECH-0014) tool on the reverse engineered app to identify APIs that read data from local storage.
```

## Observation

The output identifies code where `SharedPreferences` data is loaded without an integrity check.

## Evaluation

> The test case fails if the application doesn't verify the integrity and authenticity of data loaded from local storage such as `SharedPreferences`.

Reviewer 2: As Diolor said: Does that mean we should verify integrity + authenticity for all data in SharedPrefs? E.g. a true/false boolean if the app should render light or dark them is not important.

Without adding the context of sensitive data or data that could harm the apps, this wording is very generalised.

Reviewer: This needs additional explanation. The analyst needs to review the instances from the observation, reverse engineer those locations and check for validation. We do this in other tests as well, e.g. https://mas.owasp.org/MASTG/tests/android/MASVS-NETWORK/MASTG-TEST-0233/#evaluation

```suggestion
The test case fails if the app doesn't verify the integrity and authenticity of data loaded from local storage before being used in security-relevant decisions.

This means that the presence of the target APIs, e.g. `SharedPreferences.getString` does not inherently fail the test. Each reported code location must be carefully analyzed by reverse engineering it and checking whether the app performs the proper validation.
```

## Evaluation

The test case fails if the app doesn't verify the integrity and authenticity of data loaded from local storage before being used in security-relevant decisions.

This means that the presence of the target APIs, for example `SharedPreferences.getString`, does not inherently fail the test. Each reported code location must be carefully analyzed by reverse engineering it and checking whether the app performs the proper validation.

When evaluating reported code locations, determine:

1. What value is being loaded from local storage.
2. Whether that value can influence a security-relevant decision, such as authentication state, authorization, feature access, configuration, or trust decisions.
3. Whether the app verifies the integrity and authenticity of the loaded value before using it, for example with an HMAC, MAC, signature, or similar verification mechanism.

> 4. Whether that validation is effective for the attacker model in scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Whether that validation is effective for the attacker model in scope.

```
